Term Name,Parent,Child,Description
Liturgical Life,,Liturgy,Main category for liturgical practices and events.
,Liturgical Life,Divine Liturgy,The central Eucharistic service of the Orthodox Church.
,Liturgical Life,Vespers,Evening prayer service held in the Orthodox tradition.
,Liturgical Life,Matins,Morning prayer service typically said before the Divine Liturgy.
,Liturgical Life,Compline,Nighttime prayer service, often the last of the daily offices.
,Liturgical Life,Sacraments,Subcategory under Liturgical Life for the seven sacraments of the Church.
,Liturgical Life,Festal Cycle,Subcategory under Liturgical Life for major feast days and seasons.
Liturgy,Liturgical Life,,Subcategory under Liturgical Life for various types of liturgical services.
Divine Liturgy,Liturgy,,The central Eucharistic service of the Orthodox Church.
Vespers,Liturgy,,Evening prayer service held in the Orthodox tradition.
Matins,Liturgy,,Morning prayer service typically said before the Divine Liturgy.
Compline,Liturgy,,Nighttime prayer service, often the last of the daily offices.
Sacraments,Liturgical Life,,Subcategory under Liturgical Life for the seven sacraments of the Church.
Baptism,Sacraments,,The first sacrament, symbolizing the washing away of sin.
Chrismation,Sacraments,,The sacrament of confirmation, performed after baptism.
Eucharist,Sacraments,,The sacrament of Holy Communion, the body and blood of Christ.
Confession,Sacraments,,The sacrament of repentance and reconciliation with God.
Anointing of the Sick,Sacraments,,The sacrament of healing and comfort for the ill.
Marriage,Sacraments,,The sacrament of union between a man and a woman in the Church.
Ordination,Sacraments,,The sacrament of consecration of a priest or deacon.
Festal Cycle,Liturgical Life,,Subcategory under Liturgical Life for major feast days and seasons.
Great Lent,Festal Cycle,,The most solemn period of fasting and prayer before Pascha.
Pascha (Easter),Festal Cycle,,The celebration of the Resurrection of Christ.
Theophany,Festal Cycle,,Celebrates the revelation of Christ as the Son of God.
Dormition,Festal Cycle,,The Feast of the Falling Asleep of the Theotokos.
Nativity,Festal Cycle,,Celebrates the birth of Jesus Christ.
Spiritual Formation,,Prayer,Main category for spiritual growth and development.
,spiritual Formation,Jesus Prayer,A short prayer used in Orthodox Christian spiritual practice.
,spiritual Formation,Rule of Prayer,A structured schedule of prayers and psalms for daily use.
,spiritual Formation,Prayer of St. Ephraim,A traditional prayer used in the morning and evening offices.
,spiritual Formation,Mystagogy,Subcategory under Spiritual Formation for deeper understanding of the mysteries of the faith.
,spiritual Formation,Catechism,Teaching of the basic doctrines of the Orthodox faith.
,spiritual Formation,Faith Formation,Educational programs for children and adults in the faith.
,spiritual Formation,Bible Study,Study of Scripture within the context of Orthodox tradition.
,spiritual Formation,Asceticism,Subcategory under Spiritual Formation for disciplines of self-control and spiritual growth.
,spiritual Formation,Fasting,Abstinence from food and other pleasures for spiritual purification.
,spiritual Formation,Silence,Practice of quietness to foster inner stillness and prayer.
,spiritual Formation,Humility,Spiritual virtue of recognizing one's dependence on God.
Community Life,,Youth Ministry,Main category for parish and group activities.
,Community Life,Youth Ministry,Subcategory under Community Life for youth-related programs.
,Sunday School,Youth Ministry,Religious education for children on Sundays.
,Youth Group,Youth Ministry,Activities and meetings for young people in the parish.
,Retreats,Youth Ministry,Spiritual retreats for youth and families.
,Women’s Ministry,Community Life,Subcategory under Community Life for women’s programs.
,Bible Study,Women’s Ministry,Group study of Scripture for women.
,Prayer Groups,Women’s Ministry,Regular prayer meetings for women.
,Outreach,Women’s Ministry,Service and outreach initiatives led by women.
,Men’s Ministry,Community Life,Subcategory under Community Life for men’s programs.
,Fellowship,Men’s Ministry,Social and spiritual gatherings for men.
,Leadership,Men’s Ministry,Training and development for men in leadership roles.
,Service,Men’s Ministry,Volunteer and service opportunities for men.
,Senior Ministry,Community Life,Subcategory under Community Life for senior members.
,Pastoral Care,Senior Ministry,Support and care for elderly and homebound members.
,Home Visits,Senior Ministry,Visits to members who are unable to attend services.
,Social Events,Senior Ministry,Events and gatherings for seniors.
Parish Activities,,Events,Main category for general parish events and activities.
,Events,Parish Activities,Subcategory under Parish Activities for specific event types.
,Services,Events,General services such as Masses and special liturgies.
,Weddings,Events,Marriage ceremonies celebrated in the Church.
,Funerals,Events,Rituals for the deceased in the Orthodox tradition.
,Special Masses,Events,Masses held for specific occasions or intentions.
,Fundraising,Parish Activities,Subcategory under Parish Activities for financial support efforts.
,Church Bazaars,Fundraising,Fundraising events at the church.
,Benefit Concerts,Fundraising,Musical events for fundraising purposes.
,Donations,Fundraising,Encouragement of giving to the parish.
,Volunteer Opportunities,Parish Activities,Subcategory under Parish Activities for volunteer roles.
,Ushers,Volunteer Opportunities,Volunteers who assist during services.
,Altar Servers,Volunteer Opportunities,Volunteers who serve at the altar during liturgies.
,Hospitality,Volunteer Opportunities,Volunteer work involving welcoming and serving guests.
Theological & Doctrinal Topics,,Dogma,Main category for doctrinal and theological content.
,Dogma,Theological & Doctrinal Topics,Subcategory under Theological & Doctrinal Topics for core beliefs.
,Holy Trinity,Dogma,Belief in the three persons of God: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
,Incarnation,Dogma,The belief that God became human in the person of Jesus Christ.
,Resurrection,Dogma,The belief in the bodily resurrection of Christ and all believers.
,Patristics,Theological & Doctrinal Topics,Subcategory under Theological & Doctrinal Topics for teachings of the Church Fathers.
,St. John Chrysostom,Patristics,One of the most influential early Church Fathers.
,St. Basil the Great,Patristics,A key theologian and bishop of the early Church.
,St. Gregory Palamas,Patristics,A 14th-century theologian known for his writings on the hesychast tradition.
,Cannon Law,Theological & Doctrinal Topics,Subcategory under Theological & Doctrinal Topics for church regulations.
,Church Regulations,Cannon Law,Rules governing the operation of the parish and clergy.
,Clergy Roles,Cannon Law,Responsibilities and duties of priests, bishops, and deacons.
,Parish Governance,Cannon Law,Structure and management of the parish community.
Cultural & Historical Context,,Antiochian Heritage,Main category for historical and cultural aspects of the Antiochian Orthodox Church.
,Antiochian Heritage,Cultural & Historical Context,Subcategory under Cultural & Historical Context for the history and traditions of the Antiochian Archeparchy.
,History of the Antiochian Archeparchy,Antiochian Heritage,Historical background of the Antiochian Orthodox Church.
,Iconography,Antiochian Heritage,Study and veneration of holy icons in the Orthodox tradition.
,Sacred Music,Antiochian Heritage,Traditional music used in worship and liturgical settings.
,Orthodox Identity,Cultural & Historical Context,Subcategory under Cultural & Historical Context for the identity and values of the Orthodox Church.
,Ecumenical Relations,Orthodox Identity,Relationships with other Christian denominations.
,Interfaith Dialogue,Orthodox Identity,Engagement with other religious traditions.
,Ecumenical Patriarchate,Orthodox Identity,The spiritual center of the Orthodox world.